hello it's Ruby and today I'm going to
be sharing a video which I have been
wanting to do for the longest time I'm
going to be sharing some ideas for your
morning routine ways that you can make
your morning routine productive and set
yourself up for a really great day and
in preparation for this video I have
examined the morning routines of
successful people seeing what people
tend to do creating some of those into
this video this video is also very
kindly sponsored by Facebook and namely
that she means business campaign which
is all about empowering women into
business and empowering female
entrepreneurs it's such a cool campaign
and super inspiring to you the most
recent development in their campaign is
the publication of this book make it
work lessons from life and business
Nicola from Facebook has collated this
book where 14 successful women give
their advice and their stories and it's
so like I feel so inspired after having
read this I've been going through my
coffee and highlighting loads of top
tips and inspirational quotes and don't
judge me yes I do right in my books one
of my favorite quotes is this one I see
nowadays that there's a great pressure
on young people to work out what you
want to do straightaway and I think only
a few of us have a clear vision from the
beginning about what we want to do the
rest of us spend a little time while
figuring it out and that's totally
normal
I've also been taking on top advice from
the people in this book and implementing
it into my own routines I was reading
through what Karen blackett I was
reading through her advice her main
lesson is the importance of having a
personal brand in order to take control
of your career and this is something
which she sets up so nicely like she
gives upon things you need to reflect on
in order to build your personal brand
it's basically to make sure that you're
always acting with integrity to yourself
and your morals and your values so I've
taken the time to start a page in my
book of inspiration which you will see
later in the video
and they've basically been brainstorming
with my personal brand links to the
e-book and to online resources and the
website for she means business will be
down below in the description box and
you check that out if you are interested
I genuinely would recommend this
I have had such a huge like dose of
motivation and inspiration after reading
this
I'm gonna be separating this video in
two sections and the first section is
waking up the number one thing I will
say is that most of the morning routines
that I examined were very early they
were from early risers people who wake
up at 5:00 a.m. 6:00 and 4:00 a.m. I
think the average was around 5:00 5:30 I
totally see why this is the case because
I always feel so much more productive
when I do wake up early but then you've
got the whole question of how do I wake
up early and there are three main tips
which I would like to share with you so
my first tip is to wake yourself up
naturally by sunlight and this is
especially good going into the warmer
months where obviously the Sun is rising
earlier I sleep with my cartons open and
this means that the Sun naturally wakes
me up in the morning the second thing
which I would recommend is putting your
phone outside of your room which again
is something that lots of people do it
basically means that to turn it off you
have to get out of that which is
definitely the hardest there and then
tip number three really does lead on
from that I've recently got into the
habit of using an app called Alami where
you set your alarm and then to turn the
alarm off you've got to complete a
challenge so come on which I use most
often is having to scan a barcode so it
just means you have to get out of bed so
it's good to do something immediately
when you wake up and here are some ideas
of things that you could potentially do
as soon as you're out of bed one thing I
like to do is make my bed and it's like
a small accomplishment if something
small that you've done and it just makes
you feel a little put together and ready
for the day the second thing I always
have to do in the morning is get some
fresh air usually that just means
opening up my window but I saw a morning
routine to people who immediately say
wake up go outside like go on a walk and
take their dog and all I like to do that
in the summer but not so much in the
winter some people like to journal as
soon as they wake up just to get their
brains working to put things on paper to
get ideas flowing another really popular
choice especially in the last few years
has been meditation so taking five
minutes to just think and reflect and
sit down
you really present collect your thoughts
and set your mind up really well for the
day ahead
you could play music when you wake up
something really motivating something
you love listening to you start the day
on the
I do this sometimes and personally I
like to play my favorite film school so
Pascal music is just a lovely cramming
way to start the day it sets myself up
for a calm and collected day
one of the first things I do every
morning is drink a large glass of water
just to rehydrate the body I like the
public ice-cold water and it always
really wakes me up because you can feel
the icy water flooding into your system
it's just really invigorating and then
on the same green as that having a cold
shower is something I like to do at the
beginning of the year I was doing it
every morning and I've got to say I did
get out of the habit of that when it
started to get freezing cold but I would
recommend it it's a really great way to
start your day it's going out of your
comfort zone to do something starting
with that in the morning it just it sets
you up for a good day it sets you up for
a day where you are gonna take yourself
out of your comfort zone so next after
you've done one or a few of those things
one thing that loads of people had in
their morning routines when I was
looking especially at CEO morning
routines was exercise lots the people I
was looking out said it was because if
they didn't do it then they wouldn't
find time to do it so it ranged a lot
like ten minutes to an hour so
personally I like to do a quick ab
workout in the morning and if you do
exercise in the morning maybe have your
cold shower after then after that
getting ready is the next thing to do
and then next the most important part of
any morning routine of course breakfast
so I was actually surprised at just how
many people had coffee as a staple part
of their morning routine I don't drink
coffee so it's not a part of mine I
sometimes like to have like a matcha tea
or a green tea breakfast ideas I came
across quite a few Margaret Thatcher
only had half a grapefruit and a coffee
which definitely would not be enough to
keep me going I love to have a really
big hearty breakfast which fills me up
for the whole of the morning I didn't
get destructed by hunger and need to
snack halfway through the morning I can
fix entirely on my tasks my go-to is
either like a nourishing smoothie a
yogurt Bowl porridge of course scrambled
tofu maybe on toast if you will not
protein and these are very much in line
with the things I saw apart from
Margaret Thatcher so now for some other
things that you could do in the morning
these are habits that you might want to
implement into your morning routine
which some successful people have in
their morning routines I read a really
interesting
idea someone was talking about that hour
of power which is basically a whole hour
of motivation I do think it's important
to have like just a little section of
your morning routine dedicated to
looking for words and being motivated
getting excited when we feel inspired we
do better work and I saw lots of
variations of this people who would look
on Pinterest in the morning people who
would reflect on their life goals one
thing I really liked was having an ideas
book and then every morning looking over
this ideas book things that you want to
do adding new things seeing if you can
take actionable steps towards completing
some of those other things I mean this
is something I do but never done in the
morning so I'm gonna start doing this in
the morning now I think it's a really
great way to start your day I have a
book which is basically my life goals
planning inspiration book and it's got
my life bucket list on there it's got my
priorities my personal goals I've
started looking over this in the morning
because it really does get you excited
okay so moving on from that another
thing which you might want to do in the
morning
check your emails reply to emails lots
of the morning routines I was aching out
said it was really important just to get
those little things done but also not to
spend too long on emails because it's
easy to get bogged down with them next
reading the news this was on probably 80
or 90% of the routines I looked at
taking time to read through a few
different papers another key component
was spending time with family I'm so
glad that this was such a recurring
element because it is important to have
those sation interactions in the morning
yeah just even if it's sitting down for
breakfast with your family maybe you
walk to campus with someone we're just
giving yourself that time for that
social interaction you might want to do
a power pose I love doing power phases
in the morning it's supposed to release
adrenaline which basically means that
you feel more invigorated for the day at
school we were told you know before a
job interview you should always do power
fires so that you go in with that
confidence also practicing positive
affirmations can be really great try to
get into the habit of doing this I do it
every day but I have tried to stop doing
it more often speaking things into
existence the more you tell yourself
something more - it becomes to you I am
lucky and I am grateful for the family I
have I am positive I am happy I'm going
have a good day gratitude journaling is
also a great thing to do in the morning
if that's your base length of the day it
means that you start here because you're
already grateful for so much
lots of people also recommend reading in
the morning I like to do this whilst I'm
brushing my teeth depending on the time
of year I'll do this in bed before I get
out of bed but reading especially if you
don't find that you have the time for
reading the rest of the day the morning
can be a good time to put aside just
10-15 minutes to sit down with something
another thing you could do is networking
challenging yourself every morning to
reach out to one person on LinkedIn or
email
okay and then with that done the next
thing is to get on to work so I like to
plan my days with my study planners this
is my little stationery business I may
expect make these study fellows I use
these to plan my study days so in the
morning before I get started with work I
will go through this and I will write up
my to-do list and my timetable and plan
and get ready for the day so that I am
stretching my day in such a way that I'm
not gonna procrastinate I'm not gonna
waste time I know what I meant to be
working on that day and I can make sure
that I do accomplish that hopefully this
video was helpful I am really excited to
be sharing with you and thank you so
much to Facebook partnering up with me
so thank you so much for watching this
video and I hope that you have a
productive
[Music]